SHATTERED THE BEGINNINGS OF A
TENTATIVE TRUCE IN UKRAINE,
AS POLICE CLASHED WITH
PROTESTORS, AND KIEV'S MAIN
OPPOSITION CAMP BURNED AGAINST
THE NIGHT SKY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, JUST
HOW IMPORTANT ARE THE S.A.T. AND
THE A.C.T.?
A NEW STUDY SUGGESTS STUDENTS'
SCORES ON THOSE TESTS DON'T SAY
MUCH ABOUT HOW THEY'LLO IN D
COLLEGE.
>> Ifill: PLUS, THE STORY OF A
SMALL CARRIBEAN FACTORY MAKING
PROGRAMS.
TRYING TO BREAK EVEN WHILE
WAGE.
>> EVERY GARMENT HAS A HANGTAG
ON IT, HAS A PICTURE OF ONE OF
OUR EMPLOYEES.
>> I CAN AFFORD FOOD, CLEAN
WATER, AND MEDICINE FOR MY
CHILDREN WHEN THEY'RE SICK
BECAUSE OF YOUR PURCHASE OF
THESE CLOTHES
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE CAPITAL OF
UKRAINE ERUPTED IN FIGHTING AND
FIRE TODAY, WITH OFFICIALS
REPORTING MORE THAN A DOZEN
PEOPLE KILLED.
THE BATTLE IN KIEV STRETCHED
INTO THE NIGHT, PITTING THE PRO-
RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT AGAINST
PROTESTERS DEMANDING CLOSER TIES
WITH THE WEST.
WE HAVE A REPORT NARRATED BY
JAMES MATES OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS.
HAS BEEN ASKING WHEN THE
UKRAINIAN AUTHORITIES WOULD MOVE
TO CLEAR THE DEMONSTRATORS FROM
A KIEV'S MAIN SQUARE.
AT 8:00 P.M. LOCAL TIME RANKS
RIOT POLICE, ARMORED VEHICLE
DECIDED TO MOVE IN AND MET WITH
VOLLEY'S OF BOMBS AND FIREWORKS.
THE DEMONSTRATORS HAVE PREPARED
THEIR DEFENSES WELL, BARRICADE,
TIRES, ANTI-VEHICLES ALL QUICKLY
ABLAZE TO STOP THE ADVANCING
TROOPS BUT STUN GRENADES, RUBBER
BULLETS ALL SLOWLY BEAT DOWN THE
RESISTANCE IN THEIR FIRE.
EVEN BEFORE NIGHT FALL IN KIEV,
NINE PEOPLE VEHA DIED, INCLUDING
TWO POLICEMEN.
THAT TOLL IS NOW KNOWN TO BE
RAISING WITH EVERY PASSING HOUR.
THE VIOLENCE OF THE GUN
SPIRALING OUT OF CONTROL MUCH
EARLIER IN THE DAY AS POLICE
LINES BROUGHT TO MARCH TOWARDS
THE COUNTRY'S HEART.
BY THE STANDARDS OF THE LAST
THREE MONTHS, THIS WAS VERY
NASTY.
A LOAN PIPER FIGHTING ALL AROUND
MAY HAVE LIFTED SPIRITS.
THE POLICE MARKS MEN FIRING WHAT
MAY HAVE BEEN RUBBER BULLETS,
MAY HAVE BEEN SOMETHING WORSE, A
FOREWARNING COMING UP.
INSIDE THE COUNTRY'S PARLIAMENT,
SUPPORTERS ARE SIMILAR,
PHYSICALLY PREVENTING OPPOSITION
MP FROM TABLING A MOTION TO
DEBATE THE COUNTRY'S
CONSTITUTION.
THE MAN WHO LEADS THE
OPPOSITION, FORMER HEAVY WAIT
CHAMPION PLEADED WITH THE
PRESIDENT TO STEP BACK FROM
CONFRONTATIONS.
I AM ADDRESSING THE PRESIDENT HE
SAID.
IN HIS HANDS LIES ALL
RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTHORITY.
ONLY HE CAN MANAGE THE
SITUATION.
THERE MAY BE NO MANAGING THIS
THIS EXTRAORDINARY PICTURE HAS
SITUATION.
JUST EMERGED ON YOUTUBE IN THE
THIS EXTRAORDINARY PICTURE HAS
LAST FEW MINUTES.
JUST EMERGED ON YOUTUBE IN THE
THE POLICE PERSONNEL BEING
LAST FEW MINUTES.
ENGULFED IN FLAMES.
THE POLICE PERSONNEL BEING
A SHORT TIME AGO REPORTS SPOKE
ENGULFED IN FLAMES.
OF 14 DEAD, SIX OF THEM POLICE
A SHORT TIME AGO REPORTS SPOKE
OFFICERS.
OF 14 DEAD, SIX OF THEM POLICE
JUDGING BY THESE PICTURES, THE
OFFICERS.
REAL FIGURE MAY YET BE MUCH
JUDGING BY THESE PICTURES, THE
HIGHER.
REAL FIGURE MAY YET BE MUCH
>> THE WHITEHOUSE CONDEMN THE
HIGHER.
>> Woodruff: THE WHITE HOUSE
>> THE WHITEHOUSE CONDEMN THE
CONDEMNED THE VIOLENCE, SAYING
>> Woodruff: THE WHITE HOUSE
FORCE WILL NOT RESOLVE THE
CONDEMNED THE VIOLENCE, SAYING
CRISIS.
FORCE WILL NOT RESOLVE THE
>> Woodruff: PROTESTS ALSO
CRISIS.
TURNED DEADLY IN THAILAND, WHERE
>> Woodruff: PROTESTS ALSO
AT LEAST FOUR PEOPLE WERE KILLED
TURNED DEADLY IN THAILAND, WHERE
AND DOZENS HURT.
AT LEAST FOUR PEOPLE WERE KILLED
GUN BATTLES BROKE OUT IN BANGKOK
AND DOZENS HURT.
WHEN RIOT POLICE TRIED TO CLEAR
GUN BATTLES BROKE OUT IN BANGKOK
DEMONSTRATORS FROM MULTIPLE
WHEN RIOT POLICE TRIED TO CLEAR
SITES.
DEMONSTRATORS FROM MULTIPLE
THEY'VE BEEN DEMANDING THAT THE
SITES.
PRIME MINISTER STEP DOWN.
THEY'VE BEEN DEMANDING THAT THE
TENSIONS ESCALATED IN VENEZUELA
PRIME MINISTER STEP DOWN.
TODAY AFTER AN OPPOSITION LEADER
WAS ARRESTED ON CHARGES OF
INCITING UNREST AND VIOLENCE.
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE FLOODED THE
STREETS, DEMANDING THE
OUSTER OF SOCIALIST PRESIDENT
NICOLAS MADURO.
HIS SUPPORTERS STAGED A COUNTER-
DEMONSTRATION.
IN IRAQ, A STRING OF CAR
BOMBINGS LEFT 49 PEOPLE DEAD AND
90 WOUNDED.
EXPLOSIONS HIT MAINLY SHI-ITE
SECTIONS OF BAGHDAD ANIN AD ND
AROUND THE SOUTHERN CITY OF
HILLA.
THE CAR BOMBS LEFT WRECKAGE AND
BURNED-OUT BUILDINGS IN THEIR
WAKE.
A POLICE CHIEF IN HILLA BLAMED
AN AL-QAEDA FACTION THAT'S TAKEN
RESPONSIBILITY FOR PREVIOUS
ATTACKS.
AN ISLAMIST GROUP IN EGYPT HAS
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR
SUNDAY'S BOMBING THAT TARGETED
TOURISTS.
THE GROUP ALSO WARNED ALL
TOURISTS TO LEAVE EGYPT BY
FEBRUARY 20.
TWO SOUTH KOREAN TOURISTS AND
THEIR EGYPTIAN DRIVER DIED IN
SUNDAY'S ATTACK.
OFFICIALS SAY A SUICIDE BOMBING
RIPPED THEIR BUS APART, NEAR THE
RESORT TOWN OF TABA.
THE U.S. MAY TRADE WITH THE
TALIBAN IN AFGHANISTAN, TO WIN
THE RETURN OF CAPTIVE ARMY
SERGEANT BOWE BERGDAHL.
HE WAS TAKEN PRISONER THERE IN
2009.
NOW, THE WASHINGTON POST REPORTS
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
REFRESHED A PREVIOUS OFFER TO
RELEASE, IN EXCHANGE, FIVE
TALIBAN MILITANTS FROM THE
GUANTANAMO PRISON.
THAT DREW THIS RESPONSE FROM
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JAY
CARNEY.
>> WE ARE NOT INVOLVED IN ACTIVE
NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE TALIBAN.
IF NEGOTIATIONS WERE TO RESUME,
WE WOULD CERTAINLY PRESS THE
CASE OF SERGEANT BERGDAHL.
IN THE MEANTIME, WE ARE ACTIVELY
ENGAGED IN AN EFFORT TO SEE HIS
RETURN.
I CAN'T DOCUMENT EVERY EFFORT,
BUT THAT INCLUDES OUR MILITARY,
OUR INTELLIGENCE AND OUR
DIPLOMATIC TOOLS.
>> Woodruff: IN RECENT MONTHS,
U.S. OFFICIALS RECEIVED NEW
VIDEO OF BERGDAHL IN CAPTIVITY.
ITPPAR AENTLY SHOWED HIM IN
DECLINING HEALTH BUT NOT GRAVELY
ILL.
FORMAL TALKS BEGAN TODAY ON A
LONG-TERM NUCLEAR DEAL WITH
IRAN.
THE U.S., BRITAIN, FRANCE,
CHINA, RUSSIA AND GERMANY
CONVENED IN VIENNA WITH IRANIAN
NEGOTIATORS.
BUT THE IRANIANS QUICKLY
REJECTED ANY DEMAND TO GET RID
OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES.
THIS ROUND OF TALKS IS EXPECTED
TO LAST THREE DAYS.
OPPONENTS OF RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN GRABBED SOME OF
THE SPOTLIGHT AT THE WINTER
OLYMPICS IN SOCHI TODAY.
TWO MEMBERS OF THE PUNK ROCK
BAND PUSSY RIOT, IN THEIR
TRADEMARK SKI MASKS, WERE
DETAINED BY POLICE FOR SEVERAL
HOURS.
THEY CHARGED THEY'VE BEEN
HARASSED SINCE ARRIVING ON
SUNDAY.
>> ( translated ): WWEREE
CONSTANTLY STOPPED BY PEOPLE
FROM VARIOUS DEPARTMENTS, LIKE
THE POLICE, FEDERAL SECURITY
SERVICE, BORDER CONTROL
OFFICERS, WE ARE CONSTANTLY
SURROUNDED BY PEOPLE, NOT YOU
JOURNALISTS, BUT PEOPLE WHO ARE
SHADOWING US, FOLLOWING OUR
EVERY MOVE AND LOOKING FOR ANY
EXCUSE TO DETAIN US.
>> Woodruff: THE BAND MEMBERS
ALREADY SERVED PRISON TIME FOR
AN ANTI-PUTIN EVENT IN 2012.
THEY'VE URGED A BOYCOTT OF THE
WINTER GAMES.
AS FOR THE COMPETITION, A
SPOILER ALERT: TUNE OUT FOR A
MOMENT, IF YOU DON'T WANT TO
KNOW RESULTS JUST YET.
AMERICAN DAVID WISE WON THE GOLD
IN THE MEN'S SKI HALFPIPE.
THE DUTCH SWEPT THE MEN'S 10,000
METER SPEEDSKATING.
AND SLOVENIA'S TINA MAZE
CAPTURED THE GIANT SLALOM.
WE'LL TALK MORE ABOUT EVENTS IN
SOCHI LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
>> Woodruff: THE WINTER OLYMPICS
MAY NEED MORE SNOW, BUT IN
JAPAN, IT'S JUST THE OPPOSITE.
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE REMAINED CUT
OFF TODAY, FOUR DAYS AFTER A
MAJOR STORM.
AT LEAST 23 PEOPLE HAVE DIED.
THE STORM DUMPED MORE THAN THREE
FEET OF SNOW ACROSS THE CENTRAL
PART OF THE COUNTRY, BREAKING A
CENTURY-LONG RECORD.
THE MILITARY'S BEEN CALLED OUT
TO HELP CLEAR ROADS AND DELIVER
FOOD AND SUPPLIES.
WINTER'S LATEST BLAST IN THE
UNITED STATES BLEW FROM THE
GREAT LAKES REGION INTO NEW
ENGLAND TODAY.
SNOWFALL RANGED FROM SIX INCHES
IN WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA TO TEN
INCHES IN NORTHERN NEW ENGLAND.
FOR MANY, IT WAS ANOTHER DAY OF
PLOWING STREETS AND REMOVING
SNOW FROM ROOFS.
OTHERS TOOK ADVANTAGE OF YET
ANOTHER DAY OFF TO GET IN SOME
RECREATION.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, THE
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
REPORTED THE PRESIDENT'S PLAN TO
RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE TO $10.10
AN HOUR WOULD BOOST EARNINGS FOR
MORE THAN 16 MILLION PEOPLE.
IT ALSO SAID EMPLOYERS WOULD CUT
HALF A MILLION JOBS.
AND ON WALL STREET, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST
NEARLY 24 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,130.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 28
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,272.
CANADIAN-BORN WRITER MAVIS
GALLANT, KNOWN FOR HER MASTERY
OF SHORT STORIES, DIED TODAY AT
HER APARTMENT IN PARIS.
SHE WAS BORN IN MONTREAL,
STARTED OUT AS A JOURNALIST AND
WENT ON TO PUBLISH MORE THAN 100
SHORT STORIES.
SCORES OF THEM APPEARED IN
"THE NEW YORKER", AND IN
COLLECTED FORM.
MAVIS GALLANT WAS
91 YEARS OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
DEADLY VIOLENCE FUELS UNREST IN
UKRAINE; WHAT S.A.T. AND
A.C.T. SCORES SAY ABOUT COLLEGE
SUCCESS; THE PUSH TOWARD
PERSONALIZED POLITICAL ADS; A
FACTORY TRYING TO BUCK THE TREND
TOWARD LOWER WAGES; PLUS, THE
LATEST FROM THE SOCHI OLYMPICS;
AND SHEDDING LIGHT ON WHAT
HUNGER IN THE U.S. LOOKS LIKE.
>> Ifill: THE MAYHEM AND DEADLY
VIOLENCE TODAY IN KIEV MARKED AN
ESCALATION OF THE MORE THAN TWO
MONTHS OF SPORADIC PROTEST
AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT IN
UKRAINE, THAT HAS ENSNARED
EUROPE, RUSSIA AND THE U.S.
TO ASSESS THIS LATEST UNREST WE
TURN TO:
STEVEN PIFER, FORMER U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO THE UKRAINE DURING
THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW AT THE BROOKINGS
INSTITUTION.
AND ADRIAN KARATNYCKY, A SENIOR
FELLOW AT THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL.
STEVEN PIFER, TODAY THE FOREIGN
POLICY CHIEF OF THE EUROPEAN
UNION SAID SOMEONE'S GOING TO
GET TO THE ROOT CAUSES OF THIS
UNREST.
WHAT ARE THE ROOT CAUSES?
>> WELL, THE ORIGINAL CAUSE OF
THIS DEMONSTRATIONS WAS THE
DECISION BY THE PRESIDENT IN
NOVEMBER TO SLOW DOWN UKRAINE'S
EFFORT TO DRIVE CLOSER THE
EUROPEAN UNION BY THE
ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT.
SINCE THEN IT'S GROWING.
WE NOW HAVE PEOPLE OUT THERE WHO
ARE UNHAPPY ABOUT THE CORRUPTION
THEY'VE SEEN WHICH HAS GROWN
WORSE UNDER THE PRESIDENT'S
TENURE.
THEY'RE UNHAPPY ABOUT THE
GOVERNMENT.
SO WE'VE GOT A LOT THAT IS
REPRESENTED BY THESE PEOPLE IN
THE CENTRAL SQUARE IN KIEV.
>> Ifill:  ADRIAN KARATNYCKY
YOU AND STEVEN PIFER ARE GLUED
TO THE PROTEST IN THE MAIN
SQUARE.
WE'RE LOOKING AT IT LIVE RIGHT
NOW.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE REASON
FOR THIS CRACK DOWN NOW WHEN WE
THOUGHT IT HAD EASED FOR A
WHILE.
>> WELL, I DO THINK THAT THERE
WAS A PENT UP ANGER ON THE PART
OF THE DEMONSTRATORS WHO WANT A
RESOLUTION AFTER THREE MONTHS OF
PEACEFUL PROTESTS.
AND THEY MARCHED PEACEFULLY
TODAY AND THEY WERE MET WITH
ASSAULT AND ATTACKS INITIALLY
FROM GANGS THAT HAVE BEEN HIRED
BY THE GOVERNMENT TO BEAT UP THE
OPPOSITION.
THE POLICE THEN JOINED THE MALAY
AND VIOLENCE SPIRALED.
SO I THINK WHAT INITIALLY
STARTED AS A SHOW OF FORCE TO
PRESS THE GOVERNMENT INTO A
CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM THAT WOULD
ALLOW THE COUNTRY TO MOVE AWAY
FROM A HIGHLY CENTRALIZED
SYSTEM, WOULD BE ONE OF THE KEY
ELEMENTS IN LEADING TO AN
ACCOMMODATION WAS THE INITIAL
REASON FOR THE PROTEST AND THE
PROTEST DISINTEGRATED IN THE
FACE OF VIOLENCE AND BROKE DOWN.
I SHOULD SAY THAT MANY, IN THE
LAST WEEK, THOUSANDS OF
UKRAINIAN OPPOSITIONISTS HAVE
BEEN ORGANIZING INTO VERY
DISCIPLINED ORGANIZIZED SELL
DEFENSE GROUPS.
SEVERAL THOUSAND OF THEM ARE ON
THE PUBLIC SQUARE.
IN THE FACE OF VIOLENCE WHICH
INITIALLY CLAIMED FIVE PEOPLE IN
MID JANUARY AND TERRIBLE
BEATINGS OF HUNDREDS AND
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE, CONCUSSIONS
OF PEOPLE, OF DOZENS OF PEOPLE,
DEATH SQUADS OPERATING.
THERE WAS A MOVEMENT TOWARDS
SELF-DEFENSE AND THIS IS LIKELY
TO ACCELERATE IN THE FACE OF
THIS VIOLENCE.
>> Ifill:  STEVEN PIFER, WHERE
IS THE U.S. IN THIS?
WE KNOW THAT THE AMBASSADOR TO
UKRAINE, THE U.S. AMBASSADOR HAS
BEEN TWEETING NON-STOP ALL DAY,
VERY VERY CRITICAL OF THE
GOVERNMENT THERE.
WE HEAR LATE THIS AFTERNOON THAT
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN CALLED THE
PRESIDENT AND TOLD HIM TO STEP
BACK FROM THE BRINK.
DOES THE U.S. HAVE LEVERAGE?
>> WELL, I THINK FIRST OF ALL
YOU'VE SEEN THE JUDGMENT BY THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT THAT THE PRIMARY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR TODAY'S
VIOLENCE AND THE PRIMARY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR STOPPING THIS
LIES BEYOND THE CURRENT
GOVERNMENT.
I THINK THAT'S VERY CLEAR FROM
WHAT YOU HEARD FROM THE
AMBASSADOR AND ALSO FROM THE
WHITEHOUSE'S STATEMENT.
NOW I THINK AT THE END OF THE
DAY, THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR
RESOLVING THIS CRISES RESTS ON
UKRAINE.
YEW CRANES HAVE TUKRAINES HAVE .
THE U.S. AND THE EUROPEAN UNION
DO HAVE SOME LEVERAGE THAT'S
THROUGH TARGETED AND FINANCIAL
SANCTIONS.
THAT WILL BE USED WITH TWO
GOALS.
ONE GOAL WOULD BE TO MAKE CLEAR
THAT ANYONE WHO ENGAGES IN THE
USE OF FORCE OR VIOLENCE IS
GOING TO BE PUNISHED IN TERMS OF
NO VISAS TO TRAVEL TO THE WEST.
A SECOND SORT OF SANCTIONS THAT
WOULD AIM AT THOSE IN THE CENTER
CIRCLE AROUND MR. YANAKOVICH TO
SANCTIONS IF THEY DO NOT
ENCOURAGE HIM TO ENGAGE IN A
DIALOGUE AND STOP THE USE OF
FORCE.
THOSE PEOPLE LIKE TO TRAVEL TO
LONDON, THEY KEEP THEIR MONEY IN
WESTERN BANKS.
IF THAT BECAME ENDANGERED THEY
MIGHT WELL THEN APPLY PRESSURE
TO YANACOVIC AND BEGIN A
DIALOGUE.
>> Ifill:  WE KNOW RUSSIA HAS
PLAYED A PRETTY BIG ROLE
RELEASING $2 BRILLIANT IN --
BILLION.
THIS IS INDEED A PROXY WAR
BETWEEN RUSSIA AND THE U.S.
TAKING OPPOSITE SIDES OF A FIGHT
THAT'S PLAYING OUT IN THE
SQUARE.
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S A PROXY
WAR BETWEEN THE U.S. EXPWHT EU
ON ONE SIDE AND RUSSIA IN THE
OTHER BUT RUSSIA IS DEEPLY
ENGAGED.
IT IS WELL-KNOWN FROM MY VOARSZ
WHICH ARE CLOSE TO THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY THAT
RUSSIAN ADVISORS ARE WORKING
WITH THE MINISTRY OF INTERNAL
AFFAIRS AND GAINING THE ATTACKS
ON THE PUBLIC SQUARE.
AND I BELIEVE THAT THE RUSSIANS
HAVE ALL ALONG MISCALCULATED THE
NATURE AND THE DEPTH OF PUBLIC
ANGER AS HAS MR. YANOKOVICH AND
THIS CAN LEAD TO A CATASTROPHIC
LOSS OF LIFE THAT WILL NOT END
UP IN THE WELLIN QUELLING OF PR.
AS WE SPEAK NOW IN THE WESTERN
DISTRICT OF UKRAINE, MILITIA
OFFICERS ARE TAKEN OVER WHERE
MILITIA PEOPLE ARE LEAVING
VIOLENTLY IF THEY'RE RESISTING.
THAT MEANS WEAPONS OF
SUBSTANTIAL PROPORTION ARE GOING
TO BE IN THE HANDS OF THE
PUBLIC.
THERE ARE THREE MILLION FIREARMS
THAT ARE HELD BY CITIZENS
LEGALLY IN THE UKRAINE.
WE'VE ALREADY SEEN SOME SNIPERS
OPERATING ON THE SIDE OF THE
PROTESTERS.
SEVEN POLICE HAVE BEEN KILLED,
TWO MEMBERS OF THE PARTY OF
REGIONS, WHICH IS THE RULING
PARTY, AND AT THE MOMENT THE
TOLL IS UP TO 20 DEMONSTRATORS
INCLUDING IN THE LAST HOUR 14
PEOPLE KILLED, WHICH PREVIOUSLY
BY AGREEMENT HAD BEEN A
TERRITORY THAT WAS, THAT THE
GOVERNMENT HAD JUST LAST WEEK
AGREED WITH.
AND TODAY THEY DECIDED TO BREAK
THAT AGREEMENT AND TO ATTACK THE
MAINLY PEACEFUL PROTESTERS THAT
HAVE BEEN GATHERING THERE FOR
MONTHS.
>> Ifill:  LET ME ASK YOU
THOUGH, FINALLY BRIEFLY,
STARTING WITH YOU STEVEN PIFER,
IS THERE ROOM FOR RENEWED
DIALOGUE OR IS THIS GETTING OUT
OF CONTROL TONIGHT.
>> I THINK IT'S ON THE VERGE OF
SPINNING OUT OF CONTROL.
THERE WAS A CHANCE FOR DIALOGUE.
HAVING A GENUINE DIALOGUE IS NOT
GOING TO BE AN EASY TASK.
IT HAS BECOME MUCH MORE
DIFFICULT BY THE DECISION THAT'S
BEEN TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT OF
UKRAINE TO USE FORCE.
THERE IS STILL A CHANCE.
>> I THINK THE REAL ISSUE IS
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF MEMBERS OF
MR. YANOKOVICH TO THE OLIGARCHS
OF UKRAINE, THE BUSINESSMEN.
THEY HAVE INDICATED CROSSING THE
LINE INTO MASS VIOLENCE TOWARDS
THE DECLARATION OF MARSHALL LAW
AND THE SUPPRESSION OF PROTEST
VERY VIOLENTLY IS SOMETHING THEY
DO NOT SUPPORT.
THE REAL QUESTION IS WHETHER
THEY WILL ACT IN THE COMING DAYS
IN THE PARLIAMENT TO SIGNAL
THEIR DISAFFECTION.
THAT I THINK WOULD LANCE THE
BOILS SO TO SPEAK AND WOULD TAKE
SOME OF THE AIR OUT OF MYSTERY
UNDER HIS AUTHORITY AND I THINK
THAT COULD CREATE THE
POSSIBILITY.
BUT I DON'T BELIEVE THERE
YANOKOVICH IS INTERESTED IN
ANYTHING BUT A SUPPRESSION OF
THESE PROTESTS AND I THINK HE IS
GEARING UP FOR A TERRIBLE BATTLE
THAT COULD DRIFT INTO CIVIL WAR.
I THINK THE ONLY WAY TO STOP HIM
IS APPRECIATE ON THE OLIGARCHS
AND ON THE BUSINESS GROUPS TO
ESTABLISH THEIR DISSENSION WITH
HIM AND TO BREAK RANKS AND
CREATE A NEW PROCESS THAT WOULD
PUT THE PRESIDENT ON THE
DEFENSIVE.
>> Ifill:  A TERRIBLE NIGHT IN
KEY, ADRIAN KARATNYCKY OF THE
ATLANTIC COUNCIL AND STEPHEN
PIFER FORMER AMBASSADOR TO THE
UKRAINE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IT'S ONE OF THOSE
TIMES OF THE YEAR WHEN HIGH
SCHOOL JUNIORS AIMING FOR
COLLEGE ARE GETTING READY TO
TAKE THE S.A.T. OR THE A.C.T.
BUT A LARGNEW E STUDY IS
CHALLENGING THE VALUE OF THESE
WELL-KNOWN STANDARDIZED TESTS.
RESEARCHERS LOOKED AT 33 PUBLIC
AND PRIVATE COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES WHERE IT'S OPTIONAL
FOR APPLICANTS TO SUBMIT THEIR
TEST SCORES.
IN ALL, THE STUDY EXAMINED THE
RECORDS OF 123,000 STUDENTS FROM
MORE THAN 20 STATES.
IT FOUND THAT TEST SCORES DID
NOT CORRELATE WITH HOW WELL A
STUDENT FARED IN COLLEGE BASED
ON GRADES AND GRADUATION RATES.
THE PAPER HAS RAISED A VARIETY
OF QUESTIONS FROM SEVERAL
CORNERS.
WE TURN TO ITS LEAD AUTHOR,
WILLIAM HISS, THE FORMER DEAN OF
ADMISSIONS AT BATES COLLEGE IN
MAINE, WHICH IS, WE SHOULD NOTE,
A TEST-OPTIONAL SCHOOL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
FIRST OF ALL, WHY DID YOU
UNDERTAKE THIS STUDY?
>> I'VE BEEN LOOKING AT THIS
ISSUE FOR OVER 30 YEARS.
I'M TRAINED, SO I WAS THE TRYING
TO FIND THE PERFORM LAW TO ADMIT
STUDENTS WHEN I WAS DEAN OF
ADMISSIONS.
RATHER, I WAS TRYING TO SAY, HOW
DO WE UNDERSTAND HUMAN
INTELLIGENCE, HOW DO WE
UNDERSTAND PROMISE.
AND ORIGINALLY, BEGAN LOOKING AT
WHETHER STANDARDIZED TESTING
HELPED US TO CHOOSE TALENTED
STUDENTS OR WHETHER IT
ARTIFICIALLY TRUNCATED THE POOLS
OF PEOPLE WHO WOULD SUCCEED IF
WE WOULD GIVE THEM A CHANCE.
>> Woodruff:  SO YOU HAD AN
IDEA IN YOUR MIND OF WHAT THE
ANSWER WOULD BE BEFORE YOU
UNDERTOOK THIS?
>> WELL, WE'VE DONE, AT FIVE
YEAR INTERVALS FOR 30 YEARS,
STUDIES OF THE BATES SMIRT SMIT.
>> Woodruff:  STUDENTS WHO
DIDN'T SUBMIT THEIR TEST SCORES.
>> WE WANTED TO DO A STUDY THAT
WAS A NATIONAL STUDY.
I WAS FRANKLY SURPRISED TO FIND
HOW CLOSELY THE NATIONAL STUDIES
RESULTS LINED UP WITH THE LONG
HISTORY OF STUDIES WE'VE DONE AT
BATES.
AND SO TELL US WHA>> Woodruff: S
WHAT WERE THE MAIN FINDINGS.
>> THE MAIN FINDING IS THAT IF
STUDENTS HAVE STRONG HIGH SCHOOL
RECORDS, GOOD GRADES IN HIGH
SCHOOL, THERE ARE ODDS IN
COLLEGE IS VERY GOOD EVEN WITH A
QUITE WIDE RANGE OF TESTING.
OF THE 123,000 STUDENTS IN OUR
STUDIED, WE HAD APPROXIMATELY
30% HAD NOT SUBMITTED THERE
TESTS OR HAD NOT HAD THEM USED
FOR ADMISSIONS DECISIONS.
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE GPA'S
IN COLLEGE TURNED OUT TO BE FIVE
100THS OF A GPA POINT.
THE DIFFERENCE IN GRADUATION
RATES TURNED OUT TO BE SIX
TENTHS OF 1%.
BY ANY STATISTICAL STANDARD
THOSE ARE TRIVIAL DIFFERENCES.
>> Woodruff:  IT'S COMMONLY
BEEN ACCEPTED THOUGH FOR MANY
YEARS THAT THESE TESTS HELP IN
DETERMINING WHETHER STUDENTS
SHOULD BE ACCEPTED AT COLLEGE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK THESE RESULTS
SHOULD SAY TO COLLEGES THAT ARE
TODAY INSISTING THAT STUDENTS
SEND IN SUBMIT THEIR TEST
RESULTS.
>> I THINK THAT COLLEGES WILL
PROBABLY DOING SOME HOPEFULLY
ANALYSIS OF THEIR OWN PREDIRKSZ
COLLEGE BY MUCH.
THIS IS A NATIONAL STUDY SO IT
LOOKS ACROSS INSTITUTIONAL
TYPES.
OF THE HUNDRED AND 23,000
STUDENTS IN OUR STUDY, 71,000
WERE AT PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES,
ANOTHER 12,000 WERE AT MINORITY
SERVING INSTITUTIONS.
WE HAD 20 PRIVATE COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES IN OUR STUDY.
SO THERE'S A VERY WIDE VARIETY.
BUT I HOPE INSTITUTIONS WILL ASK
THEMSELVES THE QUESTION, WOULD
WE OPEN UP OUR APPLICANT POOLS
MORE.
WOULD WE SEE LARGER NUMBERS OF
STUDENTS WHO WOULD SUCCEED IF IN
ONE WAY OR ANOTHER WE
DEEMPHASIZED THE TESTING.
AND THAT ESSENTIALLY IS WHAT
BATES HAS FOUND OR OVER THE
YEARS OUR APPLICANT POOL WENT
FROM 2200 TO 5200 FOR ABOUT THE
SAME SIZE CLASS.
DO YOU GET A BETTER CLASS WITH
TWO AND-A-HALF TIMES AS MANY
APPLICANTS?
OF COURSE.
OF COURSE YOU DO.
AND ON ALL THE SCALES, NOT JUST
ACADEMIC SUCCESS, BUT
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE COLLEGE
COMMUNITY IN A VARIETY OF WAYS.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT DO YOU SAY
TO REPRESENTATIVES OF THE
COLLEGE BOARD.
THIS IS THE BODY THAT
ADMINISTERS THE S.A.T. THAT THEY
SAY MULTIPLE SURVEYS THEY'VE
DONE OVER THE YEARS, TESTS
THEY'VE DONE, EVALUATIONS, SHOW
THAT THIS TEST IS AN ACCURATE
PREDICTOR OF COLLEGE SUCCESS.
THEY ALSO SAY, I'M QUOTING NOW
HIGH QUALITY RESEARCH SHOWS NEED
OF THE S.A.T. NOR HIGH SCHOOL
GRADE POINT AVERAGE SHOULD BE
USED ALONE WHEN MAKING COLLEGE
ADMISSION DECISIONS.
>> WELL, I WOULD TEND TO AGREE
WITH THE SECOND POINT.
AND I WOULD SAY STUDENTS SHOULD
TRY TO SHOW US WHAT THEY BROUGHT
TO SOME HIGH LEVEL OF SUCCESS.
IT NEED BE A DEBATE OR SOCCER
GOALIE OR COMMUNITY SERVICE BUT
I AGREE WE SHOULD LOOK AT MORE
THAN A SINGLE INSTRUMENT.
I FRANKLY WAS SURPRISED TO FIND
HOW RELIABLE THE HIGH SCHOOL GPA
WAS.
AND I THOUGHT ABOUT IT A LOT.
I MYSELF THINK THAT WE ARE
LOOKING AT TWO FOUR YEAR LONG
DEMONSTRATIONS, HIGH SCHOOL AND
COLLEGE OF SELF DISCIPLINE,
CURIOSITY, INTELLECTUAL DRIVE.
IF YOU WILL, THE ABILITY TO GET
YOUR HOMEWORK DONE ON TIME, GET
YOUR PAPERS WRITTEN.
SO I THINK THERE ARE REASONS
THAT THE HIGH SCHOOL GPS TURNS
OUT TO BE A VERY SOLID
PREDICTOR.
AND OURS IS BY FAR NOT THE FIRST
STUDY THAT HAS TURNED UP THE
SAME RESULTS.
>> Woodruff:  JUST QUICKLY
FINALLY, PIN DOWN FOR US WHAT
HARM YOU SEE IN INSISTING THAT
STUDENTS TAKE THESE TESTS AND
SUBMITTESUBMIT THEM.
>> WELL THE BIGGEST ARM IS TO
THE COUNTRY.
YOU TRUNCATE THE APPLICANT POOLS
OF PEOPLE WHO WOULD SUCCEED.
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
NON-SUBMITTERS IN HIGHER
PERCENTAGES ARE JUST WHO WE NEED
TO GET THROUGH.
FIRST GENERATION TO COLLEGE,
MINORITY STUDENTS, STUDENTS WITH
LEARNING DISABILITIES LIKE
DYSLEXIA.
SOMEWHAT MORE WOMEN THAN MEN.
PEL GRANT RECIPIENTS WHO ARE LOW
INCOME STUDENTS.
THESE ARE THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO
GET THROUGH COLLEGE.
SO THE DANGER IS YOU TRUNCATE
YOUR POOL, THE PEOPLE YOU REALLY
NEED TO HAVE IN YOUR COLLEGE.
>> Woodruff:  BILL HISS, WE
THANK YOU FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: IN AN AGE OF HYPER-
CONNECTEDNESS, IT WAS ONLY A
MATTER OF TIME UNTIL THE
POLITICIANS FOUND YOU.
DOES THE MUSIC YOU STREAM MAKE
YOU A DEMOCRAT OR A REPUBLICAN?
DO THE PROGRAMS YOU RECORD TO
WATCH LATER GIVE POLITICAL AD-
MAKERS A CLUE TO WHETHER YOU'RE
PERSUADABLE?
SATELLITE T.V., RADIO AND CABLE
ARE ALL IN ON THE GAME, WHICH
TAKES TARGETED ADVERTISING WAY
BEYOND WHAT YOU'RE GETTING IN
THE MAIL.
BUT HOW DOES IT WORK?
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO KEN
GOLDSTEIN, PROFESSOR OF POLITICS
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF SAN
FRANCISCO AND FORMER PRESIDENT
OF THE CAMPAIGN MEDIA ANALYSIS
GROUP, WHICH TRACKS POLITICAL
AND, EITAN HERSH, ASSISTANT
PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL SCIENCE
AT YALE UNIVERSITY.
>> KEN GOLDSTEIN HAS VULNERABLE
SHOULD THE DOWNLOADERS AND
STREAMERS FEEL ABOUT ALL THIS.
>> WHAT PANDORA'S DOING I DON'T
THINK VERY VULNERABLE.
WHAT THEY'RE BASICALLY DOING IS
TAKING DATA ON WHAT GEOGRAPHIC
UNIT.
>> Ifill:  INTERNET RADIO.
>> EXACTLY.
PEOPLE IN THIS AREA ARE
LISTENING TO THIS MUSIC AND
PEOPLE IN THIS AREA TEND TO VOTE
FOR THIS PARTICULAR CANDIDATE.
SO THEY'RE NOT REALLY ADDRESSING
IT TO THE INDIVIDUAL.
NOW, WHAT'S GOING ON WITH OTHER
TECHNOLOGIES IN TERMS WITH
RETURN PATH DATA.
SO ALL THE FOLKS OUT THERE USING
DVRS, THOSE DVRS ARE TRACKING
YOUR TUNING PATTERNS, WHAT
YOU'RE WATCHING, WHAT YOU'RE
FAST FORWARDING THROUGH, WHAT
COMMERCIALS YOU'RE WATCHING AND
NOT WATCHING.
THAT CAN BE CONNECTED WITH OTHER
INDIVIDUAL LEVEL DATA ABOUT YOU.
AND THAT'S WHAT'S REALLY BEING
USED TO TARGET.
>> Ifill:  EITAN HERSH, HOW
LONG HAS THIS BEEN GOING ON.
>> TARRING USING PHOTO
REGISTRATION HAS BEEN GOING ON
FOR A LONG TIME, FOR A CENTURY.
IT REALLY GOT OFF THE GROUND IN
A SERIOUS WAY AFTER THE HELP
AMERICA VOTE ACT WHICH IS IN
RESPONSE TO OUR ELECTION
TROUBLES IN THE YEAR 2004 FOR
STATES TO START MAKING DIGITAL
UP REGULATED VOTER FILES.
MAKING THOSE VOTER FILES AT THE
STATE LEVEL THE CAMPAIGNS CAUGHT
ON THAT THEY COULD START
ASSEMBLING MASSIVE DATABASES BY
LINKING PEOPLE WITH THEIR BIRTH
DATES, ADDRESS AND PERSONAL
INFORMATION WITH ALL SORTS OF
COMMERCIAL AND OTHER PUBLIC
RECORDS.
>> Ifill:  LET ME ASK YOU
THIS.
I'M A BOB MARLEY FAN BUT I ALSO
LIKE PAT BOONE IS THIS TELLING
ANYONE OUT THERE WHO WANTS TO
GET ELECTED WHO I'M LIKELY TO
VOTE FOR.
>> MAYBE NOT.
ONE THING ABOUT MAR CROW
TARGETING THEY HAVE THESE
CAMPAIGN PARTIES THAT'S NOT
CORRELATED WITH YOUR POLITICAL
DISPOSITION.
JUST BECAUSE YOU LISTEN TO THOSE
MUSICIANS DOESN'T REALLY MEAN
THAT THOSE DISPOSITIONS TOWARDS
MUSIC ARE CORRELATED WITH
DISPOSITIONS THAT CAMPAIGNS CARE
ABOUT, WHICH IS HOW LIKELY YOU
ARE TO VOTE AND WHETHER YOU'RE
LIKELILY TO SUPPORT ONE PARTY OR
ANOTHER.
SO THERE ARE LIMITS IN TERMS OF
THE DATA AND ITS RELATIONSHIP,
THE POLITICS THAT SUGGESTS MIGHT
NOT BE ALL THAT COMPELLING DATA
FOR CAMPAIGNS.
>> Ifill:  THINGS LIKE BRUCE
SPRINGSTEIN WOULD BE CONFUSING
FOR PEOPLE.
>> AND SOMEONE --
>> Ifill:  I TRY TO BE
ECLECTIC.
TELL ME SOMETHING, HOW LUCRATIVE
IS IT FOR CAMPAIGNS OR FOR THE
COMPANIES THEMSELVES, WHETHER
IT'S PANDORA OR DISH TV OR ANY
OF THESE DELIVERERS OF
INFORMATION.
HOW LUCRATIVE IS IT FOR THEM TO
WORK WITH THE CAMPAIGNS THAT
PROVIDE THIS INFORMATION.
>> POLITICALLY IT USED TO BE
SORT OF A PAIN FOR FOLKS IN THE
ADVERTISING BUSINESS.
NOW IT IS A VERY LARGE SOURCE OF
REVENUE IN EVEN NUMBERED YEARS.
SO NOT ONLY NEW SOURCE OF MEDIA
LIKE PANDORA ARE LOOKING FOR,
THEY ARE A SHARE OF IT.
BUT THE TRADITIONAL SORTS, THE
LOCAL TELEVISION MAKES UP A HUGE
PROPORTION OF THEIR PROFITS IN
EITAN SAID, TARGETING ISN'T
ANYTHING THAT'S NEW.
IT'S BEEN GOING ON FOR A LONG
TIME AND WE USED TO THINK ABOUT
TARGETING, MAYBE A CITY.
THEN WE THOUGHT ABOUT TARGETING
A PRECINCT.
THEN WE THOUGHT ABOUT TALKIN TAG
A STREET.
THEN WE WERE ABLE TO TARGET
HOUSES WITH THIS
MICROTARGETTING.
NO I DON'T HAVE TO SEND YOU A
PIECE OF MAIL TO YOUR HOUSE OR
COME KNOCK ON YOUR DOOR.
I'M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT EXACTLY
WHAT SHOWS GLEN I'L AGAIN I'LL S
WATCHING.
AND THE NEXT IS THE ADVERTISING.
THE BIG THING OBAMA AND BUSH DID
IN 20014 AND OBAMA IN 2008 AND
2014 TO FIND OUT WHAT SHOWS
YOU'RE WATCHING, THEY DON'T CARE
WHAT SHOW YOU'RE WATCHING
THEY'RE GOING TO DELIVER THAT AD
TO YOU NO MATTER WHAT SHOW
YOU'RE WATCHING.
>> Ifill:  I WAS TALKING ABOUT
TARGETING PERSUADE KNOWLEDGE
PEOPLE OR IDENTIFY THE PEOPLE
MORE LIKELY TO SUPPORT YOU.
SAY YOU'RE A REPUBLICAN AND YOU
WATCH FOX, THE GENERAL
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THOSE
PEOPLE WOULD BE REPUBLICANS
ANYWAY.
SO WHY TARGET THEM?
>> RIGHT.
WELL THE MAIN THING THAT
TARGETING HAS BEEN MOST USEFUL
FOR IN THE LAST YEAR ELECTION
TICKAL IS TARGETING PEOPLE WHO
ARE VERY LIKELY TO BE SUPPORTERS
OF YOUR SIDE BUT WHO MIGHT NOT
TURN OUT WITHOUT AN EXTRA PUSH.
IT'S BASICALLY PUBLIC RECORDS
UNDER YOUR PARTY REGISTRATION,
YOUR PAST BEHAVIOR IN PARTY
PRIMARIES, WHETHER YOU'RE VOTING
OR NOT.
IT'S EASY FOR PEOPLE TO FIGURE
OUT WHETHER THEY'RE LIKELY TO
SUPPORT YOU.
FOR THOSE PEOPLE THEY NEED THE
EXTRA PUSH AND THAT'S WHAT THIS
HAS BEEN ABOUT IN RECENT
ELECTION YEARS.
THE QUESTION HOW TO TARGET A
PERSUADABLE VOTER IS STILL
SOMETHING THAT CAMPAIGNS KNOW
ALMOST NOTHING ABOUT.
MEANING IF YOUR GOAL OF A
CAMPAIGN IS TO TRY TO FIND
SOMEONE WHO IF A CAMPAIGN
TARGETS YOU YOU'RE GOING TO
CHANGE YOUR MIND, THE CAMPAIGNS
HAVEN'T FIGURED THAT OUT YET.
THAT'S KIND OF HOLY GRAIL.
THE QUESTION IS WAS THERE ANY
DATA OUT THERE FROM THESE NEW
SOURCES OR OLD SOURCES THAT CAN
HELP A CAMPAIGN FIGURE OUT WHO
IS GOING TO CHANGE THEIR MIND.
>> Ifill:  HERE'S THE FIRST
QUESTION I HAVE WITH THESE
STORIES, KEN.
I THOUGHT TO MYSELF HOW DO I OPT
OUT.
ARE THERE PRIVATELY CONCERNS.
HOW DO I STOP THEM FROM WATCHING
ME.
HAVE I ALREADY GIVEN IT ALL A
AWAY.
>> I THINK YOU'VE GIVEN IT ALL
THE VOTER REGISTRATION DATA IS
AWAY.
PUBLIC DATA AND YOUR VOTER
THE VOTER REGISTRATION DATA IS
ACTIVITY IS PUBLIC.
PUBLIC DATA AND YOUR VOTER
SO IN SOME STATES YOU HAVE TO
ACTIVITY IS PUBLIC.
REGISTER BY PARTY.
SO IN SOME STATES YOU HAVE TO
BUT EVEN IF YOU DON'T, THE
REGISTER BY PARTY.
HARVESTER, IS THIS PERSON IF
BUT EVEN IF YOU DON'T, THE
THEY VOTED IN PRIMARIES WHERE
HARVESTER, IS THIS PERSON IF
THERE'S ONLY BEEN DEMOCRATIC
THEY VOTED IN PRIMARIES WHERE
ACTION GOING ON SO THAT PERSON
THERE'S ONLY BEEN DEMOCRATIC
MUST BE A DEMOCRAT.
ACTION GOING ON SO THAT PERSON
AND SO THERE'S LOTS OF WAYS TO
MUST BE A DEMOCRAT.
MODEL PUBLICLY AVAILABLE DATA.
AND SO THERE'S LOTS OF WAYS TO
AND THEN SOMETIMES ANONYMOUSLY,
MODEL PUBLICLY AVAILABLE DATA.
SOMETIMES NOT ANONYMOUSLY, IT'S
AND THEN SOMETIMES ANONYMOUSLY,
CONNECTED WITH OTHER INFORMATION
SOMETIMES NOT ANONYMOUSLY, IT'S
ABOUT YOU.
CONNECTED WITH OTHER INFORMATION
BUT THAT TRAIN'S LEFT THE
ABOUT YOU.
STATION.
BUT THAT TRAIN'S LEFT THE
>> Ifill:  EITAN, IF I AM
STATION.
TRYING TO GIVE UP MY DVR, IS
>> Ifill:  EITAN, IF I AM
THAT WHAT I HAVE TO DO IN ORDER
TRYING TO GIVE UP MY DVR, IS
FOR THAT INFORMATION NOT TO BE
THAT WHAT I HAVE TO DO IN ORDER
SHARED OR IS THERE A WAY TO STOP
FOR THAT INFORMATION NOT TO BE
IT FROM BEING SHARED.
SHARED OR IS THERE A WAY TO STOP
>> THE ONE SUGGESTION I HAVE FOR
IT FROM BEING SHARED.
YOU IF YOU'RE CONCERNED ABOUT
>> THE ONE SUGGESTION I HAVE FOR
THE PRIVACY ISSUES, THOSE ISSUES
YOU IF YOU'RE CONCERNED ABOUT
ARE SETTLED IN STATE
THE PRIVACY ISSUES, THOSE ISSUES
LEGISLATURES WHERE THEY DECIDE
ARE SETTLED IN STATE
WHAT DATA ON THE PUBLIC SIDE AND
LEGISLATURES WHERE THEY DECIDE
THE VOTER REGISTRATION FILES AND
WHAT DATA ON THE PUBLIC SIDE AND
OTHER LICENSING DATA THAT THEY
THE VOTER REGISTRATION FILES AND
HAVE THAT WE PRODUCE AT THE
OTHER LICENSING DATA THAT THEY
STATE LEVEL CAN BE SHARED WITH
HAVE THAT WE PRODUCE AT THE
PARTIES AND LINKED TO OTHER
STATE LEVEL CAN BE SHARED WITH
RECORDS.
PARTIES AND LINKED TO OTHER
INTERESTINGLY IN RECENT ELECTION
RECORDS.
CYCLES, IN RECENT LEGISLATIVE
INTERESTINGLY IN RECENT ELECTION
CYCLES, SOME STATE LEGISLATORS
CYCLES, IN RECENT LEGISLATIVE
HAVE TRIED TO STOP VOTER
CYCLES, SOME STATE LEGISLATORS
REGISTRATION DATA AND OTHER
HAVE TRIED TO STOP VOTER
LICENSING DATA ARE FROM BEING
REGISTRATION DATA AND OTHER
USED FROM THE CAMPAIGN SETTING
LICENSING DATA ARE FROM BEING
OF MICROTARGETTING.
USED FROM THE CAMPAIGN SETTING
THOSE ALWAYS ENDED, THOSE BILLS
OF MICROTARGETTING.
ARE PUT TO AN END BY THE
THOSE ALWAYS ENDED, THOSE BILLS
MAINSTREAM POLITICIANS WHO THINK
ARE PUT TO AN END BY THE
THAT THE DATA'S VERY USEFUL FOR
MAINSTREAM POLITICIANS WHO THINK
CAMPAIGN.
THAT THE DATA'S VERY USEFUL FOR
>> Ifill:  EXACTLY.
CAMPAIGN.
EITAN HERSH ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
>> Ifill:  EXACTLY.
OF POLITICAL SCIENCE AT YALE
EITAN HERSH ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
UNIVERSITY AND KEN GOLDSTEIN
OF POLITICAL SCIENCE AT YALE
PROFESSOR OF POLITICS AT THE
UNIVERSITY AND KEN GOLDSTEIN
UNIVERSITY OF SAN FRANCISCO.
PROFESSOR OF POLITICS AT THE
YOU IMPRESSED ME A LOT.
UNIVERSITY OF SAN FRANCISCO.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING US.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A SMALL
FACTORY IN THE CARIBBEAN IS
TRYING TO BUCK THE TREND TOWARD
LOWER WAGES IN THE GARMENT
INDUSTRY BY MAKING APPAREL FOR
BIG ATHLETIC PROGRAMS IN THE
U.S.
SPECIAL CORESPONDENT FRED DE SAM
LAZARO HAS THE STORY
IT'S PART OF HIS ONGOING SERIES,
AGENTS FOR CHANGE.
>> Reporter:  IT'S A BIG MONEY
MAKER FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF
NOTRE DAME.
THE STORIED FIGHTING IRISH NAME
IS A LUCRATIVE NAME IN THE
BILLION DOLLAR A YEAR BUSINESS
OF LICENSED APPAREL.
IN THE CAMPUS BOOKSTORE, ONE
DISPLAY IS TRYING TO STAND OUT
IN A CROWDED SPACE.
>> EVERY GARMENT HAS A HANG TAG
ON IT, HAS A PICTURE OF ONE OF
OUR EMPLOYEES.
THE HANG TAG SAYS MY SON GOES TO
SCHOOL BECAUSE OF THESE CLOTHES.
ONE MIGHT SAY I CAN AFFORD CLEAN
WATER AND MEDICINE FOR MY
CHILDREN WHEN THEY'RE SICK
BECAUSE OF YOUR PURCHASE OF
THESE CLOTHES.
>> Reporter:  JOE FOUNDED THE
NIGHTS OF APPAREL COMPANY IN
2001 AND BUILD IT INTO THE
LARGEST MAKER OF LICENSED
COLLEGE SPORTS WEAR.
THE SHIRTS ARE MADE IN A TINY
CORNER OF THE NIGHT'S EMPIRE A
FACTORY THAT PAYS PEOPLE LIKE
MANUEL GUZMAN A LIVING WAGE.
UNUSUAL DOES NOT BEGIN TO
DESCRIBE THE FACTO WHERYRE
GUZMAN WORKS IN THE DOMINICAN
REPUBLICAN, A CARIBBEAN NATION
OF NEARLY 10 MILLION WHERE
UNEMPLOYMENT EXCEEDS 15%.
THE FACTORY ATMOSPHERE IS
RELAXED.
THE MUSIC IS LOUD.
THERE'S NO PRESSURE HERE TO
PRODUCE ALL THE TIME.
PEOPLE COME HERE TO TRAIN US,
LAWYERS HAVE TAUGHT US OUR
RIGHTS.
ALSO WE HAVE A UNION THAT
PROTECTS US.
SHE'S THE UNION STEWARD.
I ASKED HER ARE YOUR WAGES
SUFFICIENT.
YES SHE RESPONDED, THEY'RE BASED
ON THE COST OF LIVING FOR A
FAMILY OF FIVE CALCULATED BY THE
COUNTRY'S CENTRAL BANK AND
ADJUSTED EVERY YEAR FOR
INFLATION.
>> FOR ME THE MOST IMPORTANT
THING IS THAT MY CHILDREN HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO GO TO SCHOOL.
I EVEN HAVE MY OLDEST DAUGHTER
IN COLLEGE.
>> Reporter:  FOR MANUEL
GUZMAN AND HIS WIFE THE JOB HAS
MEANT A HEALTHY DIET.
>> HE WAS JOBLESS FOR NINE
MONTHS AND WE HAVE FOUR KIDS WHO
DON'T UNDERSTAND WHEN YOU TELL
THEM THERE'S NO MILK.
SO IT WAS DIFFICULT.
THIS IS SUCH A BLESSING.
>> Reporter:  ANOTHER BLESSING
THEY COUNTED THE HOME IN PLACE
OF A HALF BUILT SHACK THAT WAS
HERE.
WORKERS AT THE FACTORY EARN
ABOUT $3 AN HOUR.
IT MIGHT NOT SOUND AS MUCH BUT
LET'S THREE TIMES THE LEGAL
MINIMUM WAGE IN THE DOMINICAN
REPUBLICAN.
THE ALTA GOVERNMENT PLANNED TO
RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE FROM ITS
GARMENT WORKERS FROM $.19 TO
ABOUT $.34 PER HOUR.
ALL AROUND THE ALTA BUILDING IS
THE DAUNTING GLOBAL COMPETITION.
THOUSANDS OF JOBS HAVE MOVEDTO
LOWER COST COUNTRIES.
ALTA IS A BUILDING THAT WAS ONCE
A MUCH LARGER GARMENT FACTORY.
IT EMPLOYS 130 WORKERS NOW
COMPARED TO MORE THAN ONE
THOUSAND UNTIL 2007 WHEN THE
BUILDING'S PREVIOUS OWNER A
SOUTH KOREA BASE COANYMP SHUT IT
DOWN.
ALTA GRACIA ITSELF IS RUNNING AT
ABOUT 60% OF CAPACITY.
IN THREE YEARS OF OPERATION IT
HAS YET TO TURN A PROFIT.
THAT DOESN'T SURPRISE ONE EXPERT
WHO STUDIED THE PLANT.
GEORGE FOUND UNIVERSITY'S JOHN
CLINE SAID THERE ARE PREVIOUS
SHORT-LIVED ATTEMPTS AT LIVING
WAGE FACTORIES.
>> THEY WERE SMALL AND DIDN'T
HAVE THE ABILITY TO CARRY
FORWARD FOR SEVERAL YEARS TO
GIVE IT A REAL TEST.
IT'S BIG ENOUGH WITH NIGHTS
APPAREL TO BACK IT FOR LONG
ENOUGH TO GIVE IT A REAL TEST.
>> Reporter:  NIGHT APPAREL
SAYS HE'S IN IT FOR THE LONG
HALL.
WORKING CONDITIONS HAVE COME
UNDER CRITICAL SCRUTINY AFTER
THE RECENT SERIES OF DEADLY
FIRES IN BANG LEISURE.
THEY CREATED ALTA GRACIA WAS
CREATED EARLIER.
A SET BACK IN HIS OWN HEALTH
MADE HIM ESPECIALLY SYMPATHETIC
TO THE PLIGHT OF GARMENT
WORKERS.
>> CAN YOU IMAGINE WHAT IT WOULD
BE LIKE YOUR KIDS ARE GOING
HUNGRY AND YOU CAN AFFORD ONLY
ONE MEAL A DAY.
I'VE HAD EXPERIENCE THAT MADE ME
THINK ABOUT THOSE THINGS IN MY
OWN LIFE.
INCLUDING MY OWN DIAGNOSIS WITH
A DISEASE CALLED MULTIPLE
SCLEROSIS.
AND THE GOOD NEWS FOR ME WAS
THOUGH I ALWAYS HAD HOPE.
>> Reporter:  HE HAS THIS
GROWING CONCERN AMONG CONSUMERS
ABOUT CONDITIONS IN GARMENT
FACTORIES AND THAT'S HELPING THE
MARKET FOR ETHICALLY PRODUCED
GOODS.
ALTA GR RAVMENT CIA APPAREL IS
DISPLAYED IN COLLEGE BOOK
STORES.
WE DON'T NOW HOW WE'LL SUCCEED
IN THIS COMPETITIVE PLACE.
>> A LOT IS BUILT BY REPUTATION
OF COLLECTITY ENDORSE THEMENTS.
HE'S TRYING TO BUILD A BRAND
GAME THAT GIVES HIM PRICING
ADVANTAGES ON SOMETHING ELSE.
ON GOOD WORKER CONDITIONS.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY INKLING YET
WHETHER THAT >> THERE ARE A LOTS
BEING DONE WHAT PEOPLE SAY.
THEY WILL PAY MORE FOR PRODUCTS
THAT THEY KNOW ARE MADE UNDER
GOOD LABOR CONDITIONS.
I DON'T KNOW THAT THERE ARE
CONVINCING STUDIES THAT PEOPLE
REALLY FOLLOW THROUGH ON THIS.
>> Reporter:  OUR INFORMAL
SURVEY SHOWED SOME OF THE
CHALLENGES.
THESE FRESH MEN SAID THEY WERE
SYMPATHETIC TO THE ISSUE OF FAIR
TRADE AND WORKERS' RIGHTS BUT
NOT PARTICULARLY TUNED IN.
>> ES NOT REALLY SOMETHING I
THOUGHT ABOUT.
I'M AWARE THINGS ARE MADE IN
SWEAT SHOPS BUT I DON'T THINK OF
IT WHEN I'M BUYING.
>> Reporter:  FOR OTHER PRICE
IS KING.
>> WHEN Y T SHIRTS
WERE IDENTICAL AND ONE SAID THEY
WERE MADE IN THE LIVING WAGE
FACTORY AND ONE SAID NOTHING
WOULD YOU PAY MORE FOR THE ONE
THAT SAID LIVING WAGER FACTORY.
>> I WOULD BUY THE ONE THAT'S
CHEAPER.
>> Reporter:  HE'S READY TO
COMPETE ON PRICE SO ALTA'S
APPROACH IS NOT TO RAISE PRICES
OR ASK FOR CHARITY FROM THE
CONSUMER.
EVEN THOUGH HIGHER WAGES RAISED
ITS PRODUCTION COSTS FROM 20 TO
30%.
INSTEAD, GOING AFTER MORE VOLUME
SALES.
ALTA WON THE BID LAST YEAR FOR
EXAMPLE FOR 150,000 FOOTBALL
TEAM SHIRTS SOLD FOR A STUDENT
FUND RAISER THAT HELPS NEEDY
STUDENTS AT NOTRE DAME.
JOHN AND ABBEY SAY IT'S A
COMPATIBLE FIT.
>> I WOULD DEFINITELY MARKET THE
ALTA ASPECT.
>> WE DO SEE A LOT OF PEOPLE
HEAR ABOUT OUR CAUSE AND THEN
JUST BUY THE SHIRT.
AND SO THEN IF THEY'RE ABLE TO
HEAR ABOUT ANOTHER CAUSE ON TOP
OF THAT IT MAKES THEIR DECISION
A LOT EASIER.
>> I WOULD THINK IN THE NEXT
YEAR OR TWO, IT WILL BE PROVEN
OR NOT PROVEN IN THE COLLEGEIATE
SECTOR.
AND I THINK THEY'RE STARTING TO
TEST THE WATERS OUTSIDE THE
COLLEGIATE SECTOR AND THAT WILL
BE A BROADER TOUGHER TEST.
>> Reporter:  THOSE THAT SAY
HIGH PRODUCTIVITY AT ALTA AND
THE PROMISE OF MORE BUSINESS
SHOULD ALLOW THE FACTORY TO SOON
BREAK EVEN.
>> I THINK THAT'S GOING TO
TRANSPIRE IN 2014.
RECENTLY THE NATIONAL HOCKEY
LEAGUE HAS MADE THE DECISION TO
LICENSE ALTA GRACIA SO NOW WE'LL
BE ABLE TO PRODUCE ALL THE NHL
TEAMS IN THE ALTA FACTORY AND
BRING THAT TO MARKET.
>> Reporter:  EXPERTS SAY MUCH
WILL DEPEND ON CONSUMERS WHOSE
BEHAVIOR CAN BEINFL UENCED AS
FACTORS AS VARIED AS A TEACH'S
PERFORMANCE OR EVEN A NEWS
HEADLINE FROM BANGLADESH.
>> Woodruff: FRED'S REPORTING IS
A PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-
TOLD STORIES PROJECT AT SAINT
MARY'S UNIVERSITY IN MINNESOTA.
>> Ifill: AT THE OLYMPIC GAMES
IN SOCHI, ALL EYES ARE ON THE
ICE, WHERE SKATERS ARE TAKING
CENTER STAGE.
JEFFREY BROWN CATCHES UP ON THE
PAST 24 HOURS AND PREVIEWS
WHAT'S AHEAD.
>> Brown: AND FOR THAT, WE'RE
JOINED FROM RUSSIA AGAIN BY
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, WHO'S
COVERING THE OLYMPICS FOR USA
TODAY AND ABC NEWS.
I SPOKE WITH HER EARLIER THIS
AFTERNOON.
CHRISTINE, WELCOME.
I KNOW THE MOST EXCITING THING
ON YOUR MIND BECAUSE THE ICE
DANCING VICTORY LAST NIGHT BY
AMERICANS MAYORAL DAVIS AND
CHARLIE WHITE.
TELL US WHY WAS THAT SUCH A BIG
DEAL.
>> IT'S THE FIRST TIME IT'S EVER
HAPPENED SO THAT ALONE I THINK
JEFF MAKES IT HEADLINE NEWS, THE
SENSE THAT FOR AS LONG HAS THERE
HAS BEEN ICE DANCING THE UNITED
STATES HAS NOT WON A GOLD MEDAL
UNTIL LAST NIGHT.
THIS HAS BEEN A LONG TIME FOR
THE UNITED STATES.
THE TEAM IS ALWAYS 11TH OR 15TH
AT THE OLYMPICS.
IT WAS BASICALLY BLOCK JUDGING
BY THE EUROPEAN COUNTRIES.
OTHERWISE THE RUSSIANS WOULD
WIN.
THE AMERICANS WERE INNOVATIVE
AND INTERESTING AND THE RUSSIANS
NEVER HAD A CHANCE.
THE JUDGING CAME IN 2004 AND THE
AMERICANS WENT TO SECOND IN THE
OLYMPICS AND THERE WAS MUCH MORE
OF AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE UNITED
STATES AND CANADA TO GET INTO
THE MEDALS.
AND THEN OF COURSE THE MAGIC OF
LAST EVENING WITH DAVIS AND
WHITE TOGETHER FOR 17 YEARS
PUTTING IT TOGETHER.
>> Brown:  AS YOU SAY THEY'VE
BEEN SKATING TOGETHER SINCE THEY
WERE CHILDREN REALLY.
IT'S INTERESTING, THOUGH, THAT
AS YOU WROTE TODAY THESE CHANGES
IN THE SPORT CAN BE SEEN IN THE
MORE RECENT CONTEXT OF THE
POPULARITY OF DANCE IN THIS
COUNTRY, RIGHT.
ESPECIALLY ON TELEVISION.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
YES.
WE'RE A DANCING NATION NOW.
WHO WOULD HAVE THOUGHT.
DANCING WITH THE STARS AND THESE
OTHER SHOWS THAT WE SEE
ESPECIALLY MAYORAL DAVI MATERIAT
CONTRIBUTED TO THE SUPPORT.
DANCING IS MORE POPULAR BECAUSE
OF THESE TV SHOWS.
IT MIGHT SOUND STRANGE BUT THIS
IS MUCH MORE THAN A FIGURE
SKATING VICTORY.
FIRST TIME EVER A TEAM EITHER A
DANCE TEAM OR PAIR ONE A GOLD
MEDAL.
SUCH A POPULAR DISCIPLINE OF
COURSE BUT ALSO IT'S CULTURE.
IT'S ABOUT THE UNITED STATES AS
A NATION AND ENCOURAGING THESE
YOUNG PEOPLE TO DANCE AND IN
THIS CASE IT WAS DANCING ON THE
ICE.
>> Brown:  NEXT ON THE ICE
WE'VE GOT WOMEN'S FIGURE SKATING
COMING UP.
YOU AND I HAVE TALKED ABOUT THIS
IN PAST YEARS SO I KNOW HOW MUCH
YOU LOVE THAT COMPETITION.
>> WITHOUT A DOUBT.
I MEAN PROBABLY YOU COULD SAY
ARGUABLY IS THE KEY EVENT OF THE
OLYMPIC GAME.
THE WINNER USUAL HERE BECOMES
THE MOST FAMOUS OR ONE OF THE
MOST FAMOUS OLYMPIANS FROM ANY
OWE LAMIANOLYMPIAN.
THEY ARE TRYING TO DO THAT.
TRYING TO BECOME THE FIRST TO
WIN TWO IN A ROW FROM VANCOUVER
IN 2010 NOW HERE IN SOCHI IN
2014.
IT'S GOING TO BE A TOUGH TASK
WITH THE 15 YEAR OLD FROM RUSSIA
BROUGHT DOWN THE HOUSE FOR YOU
IN THE TEEN COMPETITION.
YOU GOT THE TRIPLE AXLES, THE
AMERICAN'S GRACEY GOLD AND
ASHLEY WAGNER.
THIS IS A PACKED FIELD AND IT'S
GOING TO BE FANTASTIC.
>> Brown:  I'M GOING TO GIVE A
BRIEF SPOILER ALERT.
I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT A COUPLE
STANDOUT ATHLETES.
THERE'S THE OVERALL INCREDIBLE
PERFORMANCES BY THE DUTCH SPEED
SKATERS AND THEN THERE'S SKIER
WHO WON THE GIANT SHALLA SLALOM.
>> YES, THERE WAS A TIE AND THE
FIRST WOMAN TO EVER DO THIS
SINCE 1972.
AND SHE WAS THE OVERALL WORLD
CUP CHAMPION LAST YEAR.
SHE IS DEFINITELY ON TOP OF HER
GAME AT THE EXACT RIGHT MOMENT.
AND THE DUTCH, MY GOODNESS
THEY'RE WINNING ALMOST EVERY
MEDAL IN SPEED SKATING,
ESPECIALLY EVERY MEDAL THAT THE
UNITED STATES IS NOT WINNING.
THE U.S. IS HAVING A TERRIBLE
OLYMPICS IN A VENUE THAT THEY
USUALLY DOMINATE FROM BONNIE
BLARE TO ERIC HIDEN, DAN JANSEN
PEOPLE IN THE PAST.
IT'S THE DUTCH RUNNING THOSE
MEDALS NOW.
NO SURPRISE, THE ARENA IS OFTEN
SERVED WITH ORANGE WHICH IS OF
COURSE THE DUTCH NATIONAL COLOR
AND THE ORANGE IS JUST DOMINANT
AT THESE OLYMPICS.
>> Brown:  FINALLY OFF THE ICE
AND THE SLOPE THE PUSSY ROY -- T
WAS DETAINED.
HOW MUCH OF THAT OR ANY
POLITICAL ACTIVITY WENT THROUGH
THE BUBBLE YOU'RE PART OF THAT.
>> I THINK THAT OLYMPIC BUBBLE
BURST A LITTLE BIT TODAY WITH
THE PUSSY RIOT.
YESTERDAY YOU HAD A TRANS GENDER
PROTESTER IN THE PARK WHO WAS
ESCORTED OUT.
THE PROTEST DOMES ARE THERE.
IT SEEMS TO BE IN THE SECOND
WEEK OF THE OLYMPICS SOME OF
THESE PROTESTERS, SOME OF THESE
GROUPS, ESPECIALLY THE GAY
RIGHTS GROUP ARE SAYING OKAY
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH WE'VE BEEN
GOOD, WE'VE BEEN AWAY AND
HAVEN'T DONE MUCH OF ANYTHING IN
THE FIRST WEEK AND NOW WE'RE
GOING TO THE FLOOR IN THE SECOND
WEEK.
I SUSPECT THAT WILL CONTINUE.
ASHLEY WAGNER THE AMERICAN
FIGURE SKATER WHO SKATES
TOMORROW SHE'S BEEN OUT SPOKEN
ABOUT GAY RIGHTS HERE WHEN SHE
GOT TO RUSSIA.
WE ASKED HER ABOUT IT AND SHE
SHE'S SHE'S GOING TO KEEP
TALKING ABOUT IT.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE AWARE AND I
THINK IT'S A SIGNIFICANT
DEVELOPMENT.
FRANKLY WE'VE BEEN TALKING
SPORTS THE FIRST TEN DAYS, NOW A
LITTLE BIT OF NEWS AND VERY
EXPECTED NEWS AT THESE GAMES.
>> Brown:  CHRISTINE BRENNAN
OF USA TODAY IN SOCHI.
THANKS AGAIN.
>> JEFF, MY PLEASURE, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
SHEDDING LIGHT ON HUNGER IN THE
U.S., THROUGH THE EYES OF WOMEN
STRUGGLING TO PUT FOOD ON THE
TABLE.
THE NEWSHOUR'S MARY JO BROOKS
HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: A YEAR AND A HALF
AGO, 32-YEAR OLD ROBIN
DICKINSON, A FAMILY PRACTICE
PHYSICIAN, WAS LIVING HER DREAM.
SHE AND HER STAY-AT-HOME HUSBAND
TIM WEREAISI RNG TWO YOUNG
CHILDREN IN A SMALL BUNGALOW IN
SUBURBAN, DENVER.
>> I WAS A NORMAL MOM, TAKING MY
KIDS TO THE ZOO, TAKING MY KIDS
TO THE MUSEUM AND PLAYGROUND.
>> Reporter: THEN THE
UNTHINKABLE HAPPENED: DICKINSON
SUFFERED TWO STROKES THAT LEFT
HER UNABLE TO WORK MORE THAN AN
HOUR OR TWO AT A TIME.
>> I FATIGUE VERY EASILY.
SO WHEN I GET TIRED AFTER A FEW
HOURS, I GET DIZZY.
IF I'M WALKING DOWN A HALL AND
SOMEONE IS WALKING THE OTHER
WAY, I FALL.
>> Reporter: SHE WAS FORCED TO
QUIT HER JOB AND LIVE OFF
SAVINGS WHILE SHE RECOVERED.
HER HUSBAND CONTINUED TO CARE
FOR THE CHILDREN, AND NOW HER.
AND WHILE THEY MANAGED TO PAY
MORTGAGE AND UTILITY BILLS,
THERE WAS ALMOST NO MONEY
LEFTOVER FOR FOOD.
>> WE WERE DOWN TO THE POINT
WHERE WE WERE EATING POTATOES
AND OATMEAL AND RICE.
AND ONE NIGHT IT SUDDENLY
OCCURRED TO ME, WE QUALIFY FOR
ASSISTANCE.
THERE'S A SAFETY NET FOR A
REASON.
IT'S FOR PEOPLE IN OUR
SITUATION.
IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH YOUR
EDUCATION OR HOW GOOD A PERSON
YOU ARE OR HARD YOU WORK.
IT HAS EVERYTHINTO DG O WITH
YOUR FINANCIAL SITUATION.
AND OUR FINANCIAL SITUATION WAS
REALLY BAD.
>> Reporter: LAST APRIL SHE
APPLIED, AND QUALIFIED, FOR FOOD
STAMPS, NOW KNOWN AS THE
SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM OR SNAP.
>> I'LL NEVER FORGET THAT FIRST
GROCERY TRIP.
MY KIDS WERE SO EXCITED.
ELEANOR LOVES CUCUMBERS, SO WE
GOT HER CUCUMBERS.
SHE'S SITTING IN THE CART
HUGGING HER CUCUMBER AND CHARLIE
HAS HIS WATERMELON IN HIS LAP.
WE GOT ALL THIS STUFF THAT WE
HADN'T EATEN IN MONTHS AND WE
WENT TO THE CHECKOUT AND WERE
GETTING EVERYTHING PAID FOR AND
THE CHECKER SAYS, "WHAT'S GOING
ON?
IS IT SOMEBODY'S BIRTHDAY?"
AND I SAID "WE WENT GROCERY
SHOPPING!"
>> Reporter: THE EXPERIENCE OF
SUDDENLY FALLING INTO POVERTY
HAS MADE DICKINSON AN ADVOCATE,
SPEAKI OUTNG ON THE IMPORTANCE
OF MAINTAINING, AND IMPROVING,
SAFETY NET PROGRAMS.
>> Reporter: SEVERAL MONTHS AGO,
SHE JOINED A PROJECT SPONSORED
BY THE NON-PROFIT GROUP HUNGER
FREE COLORADO WHICH GIVES
CAMERAS TO RECIPIENTS OF SNAP
BENEFITS AND ASKS THEM TO
CHRONICLE WHAT ITS LIKE TO BE
HUNGRY IN AMERICA.
SO FAR, FIFTEEN WOMEN HAVE
PARTICIPATED IN THE PILOT
PROJECT.
THEY COME FROM ALL WALKS OF
LIFE.
AND THEIR PHOTOGRAPHS HAVE
BECOME PART OF A TRAVELING
EXHIBIT, SEEN IN COFFEE SHOPS,
LIBRARIES, CHURCHES, AND MOST
RECENTLY IN THE LOBBY OF THE
COLORADO STATE CAPITOL.
AT EACH EXHIBIT OPENING, THE
WOMEN COME TO SHARE THEIR
STORIES WITH ANYONE WHO WILL
LISTEN.
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE SEE ME AND I
LOOK NORMAL SO PEOPLE DON'T
UNDERSTAND THE STRUGGLES THAT I
HAVE.
YOU CANT SEE AUTISM.
YOU CANT SEE POST TRAUMATIC
STRESS DISORDER.
E TREMELY VESTFUL.
EVERY TIME I WENT.
IT WAS EVERYTHING ON THE LIST.
>> P THIS IS A PICTURE I DID.
THIS IS WHAT YOU'RE DOING IS
WAING.IT
YOU'RE ALWAYS WAITING.
IT GETS TO A POINT WHERE YOU'RE
HOPELESS.
>> SHE'S ONE OF THE
PHOTOGRAPHERS.
SHE SAYS IT'S IMPORTANT FOR THEM
TO TELL THEIR STORIES TO GET RID
OF STAI STEREOTYPES OF JUST WHOS
IN POVERTY.
>> ANY ONE OF YOUR FELLOW PEERS,
COLLEAGUES OR FELLOW
PARISHIONERS MAY BE HUNGRY, BUT
YOU DON'T KNOW THAT ABOUT THEM
BECAUSE PEOPLE DON'T WANT TO
ADVERTISE THAT ABOUT THEMSELVES.
THERE'S LOTS OF PEOPLE OUT THERE
WHO DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH TO EAT
UNTIL NEXT PAYDAY.
THERE'S A LOT OF WORKING PEOPLE
WHO GIVE THEIR LAST FIVE BUCKS
TO THEIR KID FOR LUNCH AND THEY
GO WITHOUT.
AND SO THAT'S A DIFFERENT FACE
OF HUNGER THAN PEOPLE ARE
THINKING OF HUNGER.
>> Reporter: POOLER, WHO LOST
HER JOB AS A MEDICAL ASSISTANT
TWO YEARS AGO, AT FIRST RESISTED
THE IDEA OF GOING ON FOOD
STAMPS.
INSTEAD SHE RELIED ON PLACES
LIKE THIS COMMUNITY CAFE WHICH
SERVES HOT LUNCH TO PEOPLE IN
NEED.
BUT ONE DAY, WHEN SHE WAS TURNED
AWAY FROM A FOOD BANK THAT HAD
RUN OUT OF FOOD, SHE REALIZED
SHE NEEDED SOMETHING MORE
RELIABLE.
>> I DECIDED TO APPLY FOR FOOD
STAMPS AT THAT TIME.
AND I WAS AWARDED THEM.
AND I REALLY CANT TELL YOU WHAT
THAT'S MEANT TO MY OVERALL
ABILITY TO FUNCTION, TO GET
THINGS DONE IN THE DAY.
AND NOW HAVE BEEN ABLE TO AT
LEAST SEE THE LIGHT AT THE END
OF THE POVERTY VORTEX, AS I CALL
IT, WHERE I'M IN FULL-TIME
SCHOOL IN A DENTAL ASSISTING
PROGRAM.
SO I'M HOPEFUL THAT THE TRAINING
IS GOING TO TRANSLATE INTO A
FULL-TIME JOB, ME GETTING OFF
S.N.A.P. AND BEING ABLE TO
SUPPORT MYSELF FULLY.
>> Reporter: IN ADDITION TO
TAKING THOSE DENTAL CLASSES,
POOLER HAS BECOME AN ARTIST AND
MAKES SOME MONEY SELLING HER
ART.
BENEFITS BY THE FALL, BUT SAYS
SHE'S ALWAYS GOING TO REMAIN AN
ADVOCATE FOR HUNGER ISSUES.
>> FOOD TIES FAMILIES TOGETHER.
FOOD IS SOMETHING THAT BRINGS
LOVERS TOGETHER, FRIENDS.
I THINK THAT FOOD IS AN
IMPORTANT PART OF OUR CULTURE
THAT I DON'T WANT TO SEE SOMEHOW
DIMINISHED.
SO I THINK BRINGING IT INTO THE
FOREFRONT, HELPING SOLVE THIS
PROBLEM OF HUNGER IS GOING TO
MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE.
I REALLY BELIEVE THAT.
>> Reporter: ROBIN DICKINSON
ALSO HOPES TO BE OFF FEDERAL
BENEFITS SOON.
SHE HAS STARTED HER OWN FAMILY
PRACTICE CLINIC TO SEE LOW-
INCOME PATIENTS WHO DON'T
RIGHT NOW, SHE WORKS ONE TO TWO
HOURS A DAY.
BUT AS HER STRENGTH RETURNS, SHE
HOPES TO GO BACK TO FULL-TIME
WORK.
>> OUR ORIGINAL GOAL WAS TO BE
OFF FOOD STAMPS BY NOW, BUT YOU
CAN'T PREDICT HOW LONG A STROKE
TAKES TO RECOVER FROM.
I WAS THINKING I WOULD BE
COMPLETELY BACK TO NORMAL BY
NOW, WHICH IS NOT THE CASE.
BUT OUR GOAL IS BY NEXT YEAR,
WE'RE NOT GOING TO NEED PUBLIC
ASSISTANCE ANYMORE.
AND WE HAVE A FIVE-YEAR GOAL OF
BUILDING MY OWN BUILDING IN
ORDER TO HAVE MORE SERVICES
OFFERED FOR MY PATIENTS AT
AFFORDABLE PRICES.
I HAVE BIG PLANS.
HOPES TO EXPAND THE COMMUNITIES
ALL ACROSS COLORADO LATER THIS
YEAR.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
UKRAINE'S CAPITAL ERUPTED IN
VIOLENCE AS THOUSANDS OF RIOT
POLICE ATTACKED THE MAIN PROTEST
CAMP.
AT LEAST 18 PEOPLE WERE KILLED.
AND AN 84-YEAR-OLD NUN GOT 35
MONTHS IN FEDERAL PRISON FOR
BREAKING IN TO A NUCLEAR ARMS
SITE IN TENNESSEE, AS A PEACE
PROTEST.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.